

AWS Lambda comes under compute service type. AWS EC2 and Elastic beanstalk also come under compute service type.



What is a compute service?

It is also known as Infrastructure As A Code(IAAS).  AWS Compute service provide cpu, memory, I/O to run our code.



What is AWS lambda?

AWS lambda allows us to run the code in response to an event. Event can be change in state or an update.

AWS lambda is a simple function.

Either is it triggered in response to an event or periodic like cronjob.

Bill is paid only for lambda function runtime and memory consumed.

Lambda function max execution time is 15 min and memory is 128 mb to 10240 mb.

Monthly 1 million requests free and 400k gb seconds free.

AWS lambda is serverless.

Serverless: It allows developers to build and run applications without having to manage servers. It is cloud native.

Lambda is supported in java, python etc.

AWS lambda function can be triggered in response to events from S3 bucket, cloud watch,API gateway etc and logs are stored in cloud watch.

1 Scenario:
Whenever a file is uploaded to S3, an event is triggered in Lambda function to parse the data and produce the meaningful output and send it to DB.

2 Scenario:
In cloud watch, schedulers are present. Using this we can trigger aws functions periodically.

lambda concurrency: Number of requests lambda function is serving at any given time. default quota for concurrent executions is 1000.

Sample function:
We can choose runtime as python.

What is aws lambda layer?
It is a zip file which contains packages and libraries to make the deployment faster.
To use s3 bucket, we need to import s3 package. That we will keep in layers.

destination: When lambda function passed or failed, email or log generation config is added here.


 AWS lambda function to read json file from s3:

import json
import boto3

s3 = boto3.client('s3')

def lambda_handler(event, context):
    bucket = 'bucket_name'
    key = 'filename.json'
    response = s3.get_object(Bucket=bucket, Key=key)
    content = response['body']
    jsonobj = json.loads(content.read())
